What is a System?
A system is a combination of hardware and software that interacts to solve a problem. A system usually involves the client, analysts, developers, testers, and users. 
How Can We Measure Success?
Success in software development has many different components. First, does the program solve the problem it was designed to solve? Although this seems like the most important component, many other criteria must be considered, including: Is it easy to maintain? Is it easily scalable? Is there a support system in place for clients? Was it on time and ready to be used? Was the client happy?
What is the Process for Developing Software?
Computer scientists tend to use various forms of the software development life cycle (SDLC) to solve more complex problems by breaking the process into different phases. One common model of the SDLC is the waterfall method.
What is the Waterfall Method?
The idea behind the waterfall method is that a mistake or error in one phase usually means that a programmer will have to revise code from previous phases. It was developed by Dr. Winston Royce in 1970 and contains 6 stages: problem statement, analysis, design, implementation, integration and testing, and maintenance. 
What Else is Important to Know About the SDLC?
It is important to keep in mind that as the project progresses through the phases, mistakes become much more difficult and expensive to correct, so it is important to catch errors early. As well, the majority, nearly 70%, of the cost of a project is from maintenance. 
What Tools Can Be Used for Project Management?
A popular tool for project management is the Gantt chart. Developed in the 1910s by Henry Gantt, it has been used for all kinds of large projects, including the Hoover Dam and the Interstate Highway System. Another useful tool is the UML, Unified Modelling Language. It is a standardized system for describing software systems, often with much more ease than with text. Using daily logs or weekly reports can also be useful for monitoring the progress of a project.